(a) Any program or curriculum in the public schools in Alabama that includes sex education or the human reproductive process shall, at a minimum, include and emphasize the following:(1) Abstinence from sex is the only completely effective protection against unintended pregnancy, sexually transmitted infections, and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) when transmitted sexually.(2) Abstinence from sex outside of marriage is the expected social standard for unmarried school-age persons.(b) Course materials and instruction that relate to sexual health education or sexually transmitted infections should be age-appropriate and medically accurate.(c) Course materials and instruction that relate to sexual health education or sexually transmitted infections should include all of the following elements:(1) An emphasis on sexual abstinence as the only completely reliable method of avoiding unintended teenage pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections.(2) An emphasis on the importance of delaying sexual activity and discouraging risky sexual behavior.(3) Statistics based on the latest medical information on various forms of contraception, while also emphasizing the increase in protection against pregnancy and protection against sexually transmitted infections, including HIV, which is afforded by the use of various contraceptive measures.(4) Information concerning the laws relating to the financial responsibilities associated with pregnancy, childbirth, and child rearing.(5) Information concerning the laws prohibiting sexual abuse, the need to report the abuse, and the legal options available to victims of sexual abuse.(6) Information on how to cope with and rebuff unwanted physical and verbal sexual exploitation by other persons.(7) Psychologically sound methods of resisting unwanted peer pressure.(8) Comprehensive instruction in parenting skills and responsibilities, including the responsibility to pay child support by noncustodial parents, the penalties for nonpayment of child support, and the legal and ethical responsibilities of child care and child rearing.