  (2) In middle school, students learn about health behaviors that will safeguard their health as well as information related to understanding puberty and the reproductive process. Students are taught about factors in their environment that impact, not only their health and the health of their families, but the health of their communities as well. Middle school students learn to refine their critical-thinking skills to avoid unsafe situations, analyze health information and products, and maintain healthy relationships. Students begin to investigate health in the broader context of community.(b) Knowledge and skills.  (2) Health information. The student recognizes ways that body structure and function relate to personal health throughout the life span. The student is expected to:    (A) analyze the relationships among the body systems;    (B) describe changes in male and female anatomy and physiology during puberty;    (C) analyze the role of hormones as they relate to growth and development and personal health; and    (D) describe menstrual health and identify the relationship to reproduction.  (7) Health behaviors. The student engages in behaviors that reduce health risks throughout the life span. The student is expected to:    (C) explain the relationship among tobacco, alcohol, drugs, and other substances and the role these items play in unsafe situations such as drinking and driving and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)/sexually transmitted disease (STD) transmission;    (H) explain the consequences of sexual activity and the benefits of abstinence; and    (C) explain the relationship between health needs and technology development such as the development of an HIV vaccine.  (13) Personal/interpersonal skills. The student analyzes information and applies critical-thinking, decision-making, goal-setting, and problem-solving skills for making health-promoting decisions. The student is expected to:    (A) seek the input of parents and other trusted adults in problem solving and goal setting;    (B) demonstrate the use of refusal skills in unsafe situations;    (C) explain the impact of peer pressure on decision making;  (14) Bullying prevention. The student engages in behaviors that reduce the risk of bullying throughout the life span. The student is expected to:    (B) identify strategies for prevention and intervention of all forms of bullying such as emotional, physical, social, and sexual;