  (2) Health information. The student recognizes ways that body structure and function relate to personal health throughout the life span. The student is expected to:    (A) explain how differences in growth patterns among adolescents such as onset of puberty may affect personal health;    (B) describe the influence of the endocrine system on growth and development;    (C) compare and contrast changes in males and females;    (D) describe physiological and emotional changes that occur during pregnancy;    (E) examine physical and emotional development during adolescence; and  (3) Health information. The student comprehends and utilizes concepts relating to health promotion and disease prevention throughout the life span. The student is expected to:    (D) summarize the facts related to Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).  (4) Health information. The student knows how to research, access, analyze, and use health information. The student is expected to:    (D) discuss the legal implications regarding sexual activity as it relates to minor persons;  (5) Health information. The student comprehends ways of applying health information related   (6) Health behaviors. The student engages in behaviors that reduce health risks throughout the life span. The student is expected to:    (D) identify information relating to abstinence;    (E) analyze the importance of abstinence from sexual activity as the preferred choice of behavior in relationship to all sexual activity for unmarried persons of school age;    (F) discuss abstinence from sexual activity as the only method that is 100% effective in preventing pregnancy, STDs, and the sexual transmission of HIV or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, and the emotional trauma associated with adolescent sexual activity;  (14) Bullying prevention. The student analyzes bullying information and applies strategies for enhancing and maintaining healthy personal relationships throughout the life span. The student is expected to:    (A) analyze strategies for preventing bullying, harassment, dating violence, and sexual assault;    (B) describe the seriousness of various forms of bullying such as harassment, acquaintance rape, and sexual abuse;