  (3) Health information. The student recognizes the importance and significance of the reproductive process as it relates to the health of future generations. The student is expected to:    (A) explain fetal development from conception through pregnancy and birth;    (B) explain the importance of the role of prenatal care and proper nutrition in promoting optimal health for both the baby and the mother such as breast feeding;    (C) analyze the harmful effects of certain substances such as alcohol, tobacco, and prescription drugs and environmental hazards such as lead on the fetus; and    (D) explain the significance of genetics and its role in fetal development.  (5) Health information. The student understands how to evaluate health information for appropriateness. The student is expected to:    (A) develop evaluation criteria for health information;    (B) demonstrate ways to utilize criteria to evaluate health information for appropriateness;    (C) discuss the legal implications regarding sexual activity as it relates to minor persons; and    (D) demonstrate decision-making skills based on health information.  (6) Health behaviors. The student assesses the relationship between body structure and function and personal health throughout the life span. The student is expected to:    (C) appraise the significance of body changes occurring during adolescence.  (7) Health behaviors. The student analyzes the relationship between unsafe behaviors and personal health and develops strategies to promote resiliency throughout the life span. The student is expected to:    (C) explain the relationship between alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs and other substances used by adolescents and the role these substances play in unsafe situations such as Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)/sexually transmitted disease (STD), unplanned pregnancies, and motor vehicle accidents;  (8) Health behaviors. The student analyzes health information and applies decision-making skills to promote the development and practice of safe behaviors. The student is expected to:    (A) analyze the relationship between the use of refusal skills and the avoidance of unsafe situations such as sexual abstinence;    (B) analyze the importance and benefits of abstinence as it relates to emotional health and the prevention of pregnancy and sexually-transmitted diseases;    (C) analyze the effectiveness and ineffectiveness of barrier protection and other contraceptive methods, including the prevention of STDs, keeping in mind the effectiveness of remaining abstinent until marriage;    (D) analyze the importance of healthy strategies that prevent physical, sexual, and emotional abuse such as date rape;    (E) analyze the importance of abstinence from sexual activity as the preferred choice of behavior in relationship to all sexual activity for unmarried persons of school age; and    (F) discuss abstinence from sexual activity as the only method that is 100% effective in preventing pregnancy, STDs, and the sexual transmission of HIV or acquired immune deficiency syndrome and the emotional trauma associated with adolescent sexual activity.  (14) Personal/interpersonal skills. The student analyzes, designs, and evaluates communication skills for building and maintaining healthy relationships throughout the life span. The student is expected to:    (A) demonstrate communication skills in building and maintaining healthy relationships;    (B) distinguish between a dating relationship and a marriage;    (C) analyze behavior in a dating relationship that will enhance the dignity, respect, and responsibility relating to marriage;    (D) evaluate the effectiveness of conflict resolution techniques in various situations;    (E) demonstrate refusal strategies;    (F) explore methods for addressing critical-health issues; and    (G) evaluate the dynamics of social groups.  (15) Personal/interpersonal skills. The student analyzes, designs, and evaluates strategies for expressing needs, wants, and emotions in healthy ways. The student is expected to:    (A) demonstrate strategies for communicating needs, wants, and emotions;    (B) examine the legal and ethical ramifications of unacceptable behaviors such as harassment, acquaintance rape, and sexual abuse; and    (C) communicate the importance of practicing abstinence.