  (3) Health information. The student investigates the importance and significance of the reproductive process as it relates to the health of future generations. The student is expected to:    (A) analyze problems during various stages of fetal development;    (B) investigate the role of prenatal care and proper nutrition in promoting optimal health for both the baby and the mother such as breast feeding;    (C) describe the harmful effects of certain substances on the fetus such as alcohol, tobacco, environmental hazards such as lead, and prescription and other drugs;    (D) analyze roles of relationships and responsibilities relating to marriage; and    (E) analyze behavior in romantic relationships that enhance dignity, respect, and responsibility.  (7) Health behaviors. The student generates strategies that address health-risk behaviors. The student is expected to:    (G) describe the interrelatedness of alcohol and other drugs to health problems such as drugs and date rape, Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)/sexually transmitted disease (STD), and drinking and driving.  (13) Personal/interpersonal skills. The student analyzes, designs, and evaluates strategies for expressing needs, wants, and emotions in healthy ways. The student is expected to:    (A) create and apply strategies for communicating emotions, needs, and wants;    (B) demonstrate leadership skills for advocating health;    (C) investigate and summarize current laws relating to unacceptable behaviors such as harassment, acquaintance and statutory rape, and sexual abuse; and    (D) create strategies that promote the advantages of abstinence.  (14) Personal/interpersonal skills. The student evaluates communication skills that show consideration and respect for self, family, friends, and others. The student is expected to:    (A) appraise effective communication skills that demonstrate consideration and respect for self, family, and others;    (B) associate effective communication with success in school and the workplace;    (C) explain the detrimental effects of inconsiderate and disrespectful behavior;    (D) apply criteria for using passive, aggressive, and assertive communication in relationships;    (E) analyze the importance of abstinence from sexual activity as the preferred choice of behavior in relationship to all sexual activity for unmarried persons of school age; and    (F) discuss abstinence from sexual activity as the only method that is 100% effective in preventing pregnancy, STDs, and the sexual transmission of HIV or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, and the emotional trauma associated with adolescent sexual activity.