SECTION 1. Chapter 69 of the General Laws is hereby amended by inserting after
section 1E the following section:-
Section 1E ½. Each city, town, regional school district, vocational school district and
charter school shall file a biennial report on even years with the department regarding sexual
health education in the city, town, district or charter school by a date and in a format to be
determined by the board of elementary and secondary education. The report shall include, but not
be limited to, for each city, town, regional school district, vocational school district and charter
school, by grade level: (i) the name and a description of any sexual health education curricula
offered; (ii) the approximate number of hours spent on sexual health education; (iii) the number
of students enrolled in sexual health education; and (iv) the number of students who withdrew
from sexual health education pursuant to section 32A of chapter 71.
2 of 5
The commissioner shall make the data collected pursuant to this section available to the
public on the department’s website and transmit the data to the department of public health
within 30 days of the date established for the filing of biennial reports under this section.
SECTION 2. Chapter 71 of the General Laws is hereby amended by striking out section
32A, as so appearing, and inserting in place thereof the following 2 sections:-
Section 32A. A city, town, regional school district, vocational school district or charter
school implementing or maintaining a curriculum that primarily involves human sexual
education or human sexuality issues shall adopt a written policy ensuring that parents and
guardians are notified of: (i) the comprehensive sexual health education provided by the school;
(ii) the right of a parent or guardian to withdraw a student from all or part of the instruction; and
(iii) the process for a parent or guardian to notify the school of a student’s withdrawal. The
policy shall also include a process for a parent or guardian to inspect the program’s instruction
 materials prior to the start of the course if the parent or guardian requests to review the materials.
To the extent possible, such notification shall be provided in English and in other
commonly spoken languages spoken by parents and guardians of students in the district or
charter school. Annually, not later than September 1, the policy shall be distributed to the parents
and guardians of students in a grade that includes a comprehensive sexual health education
curriculum during the upcoming academic year. The policy shall be distributed in the same
manner as any student handbook that is distributed to students. If student handbooks are not
distributed in a certain grade, the policy shall be distributed in the same manner as other notices
provided to parents and guardians at the start of the school year.
3 of 5
Each district and charter school shall send a copy of its policy, including, if applicable,
the name of the comprehensive sexual health education curriculum being used, to the department
of elementary and secondary education upon adoption of the policy and upon any amendment of
the policy.
If a parent or guardian withdraws a student from all or part of the comprehensive sexual
health education curriculum, the student shall not be subject to disciplinary action, academic
penalty or any other sanction. An alternative educational activity shall be made available to any
student who has been withdrawn from the sexual health education instruction.
Section 32B. (a) For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the
following meanings unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
“Age-appropriate”, topics, messages and teaching methods that are suitable to particular
ages or age groups of children and adolescents and based on developing cognitive, emotional,
social and behavioral capacity typical for that age or age group.
“Department”, the department of elementary and secondary education.
“Medically accurate”, supported by peer-reviewed research conducted in compliance
with accepted scientific methods and recognized as accurate and objective by leading medical,
psychological, psychiatric and public health organizations and agencies and, if relevant,
published in peer-reviewed journals.
(b) For the purposes of this section, a curriculum’s discussions of the terms “consent,”
“gender expression,” “gender identity” and “sexual orientation” shall be construed consistently
4 of 5
with the terms as used or defined in the annual report of the commission on lesbian, gay,
bisexual, transgender, queer and questioning youth established under section 67 of chapter 3.
(c) A city, town, regional school district, vocational school district or charter school that offers sexual health education shall provide a medically accurate, age-appropriate,
comprehensive sexual health education. Sexual health education shall be appropriate for students
regardless of gender, race, disability status, sexual orientation or gender identity and shall
include, but not be limited to, age-appropriate teaching of: (i) physical, social and emotional
changes of human development; (ii) human anatomy, reproduction and sexual development; (iii)
the benefits of abstinence and delaying sexual activity, the prevention of sexually transmitted
infections, including, but not limited to, human immunodeficiency virus and acquired immune
deficiency syndrome, and unintended pregnancy, including, but not limited to, the effective use
of contraceptives and barrier methods; (iv) ways to effectively discuss safe sexual activity; (v)
relationship and communication skills to form healthy, respectful relationships free of violence,
coercion and intimidation and to make healthy decisions about relationships and sexuality,
including, but not limited to, affirmative, conscious and voluntary consent to engage in physical
or sexual activity; (vi) skills to recognize and prevent dating violence; and (vii) age-appropriate
information about: (1) gender identity and sexual orientation for all students, including
affirmative education that people have different sexual orientations, gender identities and gender
expressions; and (2) resources and support services for all students, including, but not limited to,
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex, agender, queer and questioning students. Sexual
health education shall incorporate opportunities for students to analyze societal and media
messages.
5 of 5
(d) Any city, town, regional school district, vocational school district or charter school
that utilizes curricula consistent with the Massachusetts Comprehensive Health Curriculum
 Framework shall be in compliance with this section.
(e) The department shall promulgate rules to implement, administer and ensure
compliance with this section.
(f) The department may determine minimum education and training qualifications for
sexual health education instructors.
(g) Pursuant to section 1E of chapter 69, the board of elementary and secondary
education shall review and update the Massachusetts Comprehensive Health Curriculum
Framework, including provisions relative to sexual health education consistent with this section,
not less than once every 10 years.
SECTION 3. The board of elementary and secondary education shall begin to review and
update the Massachusetts Comprehensive Health Curriculum Framework pursuant to subsection
(g) of section 32B of chapter 71 of the General Laws upon the effective date of this act.
SECTION 4. This act shall take effect for the academic year immediately following its passage.