Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia:
11 1. That ยง 22.1-207.1:1 of the Code of Virginia is amended and reenacted as follows:
12 ยง 22.1-207.1:1. Family life education; certain curricula and Standards of Learning.
13 A. Any family life education curriculum offered by a local school division shall require the
14 Standards of Learning objectives related to dating violence and the characteristics of abusive
15 relationships to be taught at least once in middle school and at least twice in high school, as described
16 in the Board's family life education guidelines.
17 B. Any high school family life education curriculum offered by a local school division shall
18 incorporate age-appropriate elements of effective and evidence-based programs on (i) the prevention of
19 dating violence, domestic abuse, sexual harassment, including sexual harassment using electronic means,
20 sexual violence, and human trafficking and (ii) the law and meaning of consent. Such age-appropriate
21 elements of effective and evidence-based programs on the prevention of sexual violence may include
22 instruction that increases student awareness of the fact that consent is required before sexual activity.
23 C. Any family life education curriculum offered in any elementary school, middle school, or high
24 school shall incorporate age-appropriate elements of effective and evidence-based programs on the
25 importance of the personal privacy and personal boundaries of other individuals and tools for a student
26 to use to ensure that he respects the personal privacy and personal boundaries of other individuals.
27 D. Any family life education curriculum offered by a local school division shall incorporate
28 age-appropriate elements of effective and evidence-based programs on the harmful physical and
29 emotional effects of female genital mutilation; associated criminal penalties; and the rights of the victim,
30 including any civil action pursuant to ยง 8.01-42.5.
31 E. Any family life education curriculum offered by a local school division may incorporate
32 age-appropriate elements of effective and evidence-based programs on the prevention, recognition, and
33 awareness of child abduction, child abuse, child sexual exploitation, child sexual abuse, and, in any
34 such curriculum offered before high school, human trafficking of children.