160-4-2-.12 COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION
PROGRAM PLAN.
(1) DEFINITIONS.
(a) Alcohol and other drug use education – a planned program of instruction that
provides information about the use, misuse and abuse of alcohol, tobacco, legal and
illegal drugs.
(b) Disease prevention education – a planned program of instruction that provides
information on how to prevent chronic and infectious diseases, including sexually
transmitted diseases.
(c) Psychomotor skills – skills that use hands-on practice to support cognitive
learning for cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and use of an automated external
defibrillator (AED).
(d) Sex education/AIDS education – a planned program that shall include
instruction relating to the handling of peer pressure, promotion of high self-esteem,
local community values, and abstinence from sexual activity as an effective method
of preventing acquired immune deficiency syndrome and the only sure method of
preventing pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases. This instruction shall
emphasize abstinence from sexual activity until marriage and fidelity in marriage as
important personal goals.
(e) Fitness assessment program – annual assessment measuring and reporting
health related fitness in the areas of aerobic capacity, body composition, flexibility,
muscular strength, and muscular endurance.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.
(a) The local board of education shall develop and implement an accurate,
comprehensive health and physical education program that shall include information
and concepts in the following areas.
1. Alcohol and other drug use
2. Disease prevention
3. Environmental health
4. Nutrition
5. Personal health
1 
6. Sex education/AIDS education
7. Safety
8. Mental health
9. Growth and development
10. Consumer health
11. Community health
12. Health careers
13. Family living
14. Motor skills
15. Physical fitness
16. Lifetime sports
17. Outdoor education
18. Fitness assessment
(b) Each school containing any grade K-5 shall provide a minimum of 90 contact
hours of instruction at each grade level K-5 in health and physical education.
(c) Each school containing any grade 6-12 shall make available instruction in health
and physical education.
(d) Each school containing any grade K-12 shall provide alcohol, tobacco, vapor
products, and other drug use education on an annual basis at each grade level.
(e) Each local board of education shall develop procedures to allow parents and
legal guardians to exercise the option of excluding their child from sex education and
AIDS prevention instructional programs.
1. Sex education and AIDS education shall be a part of a comprehensive health
program.
2. Sex education shall also include annual age-appropriate sexual abuse and assault
awareness and prevention education in kindergarten through grade 9.
3. Prior to the parent or legal guardian making a choice to allow his or her child or
2 
ward to take the specified unit of instruction, he or she shall be told what instruction is
to be provided and have the opportunity to review all instructional materials to be used,
print and nonprint. Any parent or legal guardian of a child to whom a course of study
in sex education is to be taught shall have the right to elect, in writing, that such child
not receive such course of study.
(f) Each local board of education shall establish a committee to review periodically
sex/AIDS education instructional materials and make recommendations concerning
age/grade level use. Recommendations made by the committee shall be approved by
the local board of education before implementation. The committee shall be
composed primarily of nonteaching parents who have children enrolled in the local
public schools and who represent the diversity of the student body augmented by
others such as educators, health professionals and other community representatives.
The committee shall also include a male and female student currently attending the
11th or 12th grade in the public schools.
(g) Each local school system shall conduct an annual fitness assessment program, as
approved and funded by the State Board of Education, one time each school year for
students in grades one through 12, to be conducted only during a physical education
course that is taught by a certificated physical education teacher in which a student is
enrolled. Such assessments shall include methods deemed by the State Board of
Education as appropriate to ascertain levels of student physical fitness. Each local
school system shall report the individual results of the fitness assessment to the parent
or guardian of each student assessed and the aggregate results of the fitness
assessments by school to the State Board of Education annually in a format approved
and funded by the State Board of Education. The minimum required contents of the
report shall be determined by the State Board of Education.
(h) Each local board of education which operates a school with grades nine through
12 shall provide instruction in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the use of an
automated external defibrillator to its students as a requirement within one of the
required health or physical education courses (Health (17.011), Health and Personal
Fitness (36.051), or Advanced Personal Fitness (36.061)) to satisfy this requirement.
Such instruction shall incorporate the psychomotor skills necessary to perform
cardiopulmonary resuscitation and to use an automated external defibrillator. Each
local board of education shall report adherence to this requirement as determined by
the Georgia Department of Education. The instructional program shall include either
of the following:
1. An instructional program developed by the American Heart Association or the
American Red Cross, or
2. An instructional program which is nationally recognized and is based on the most
current national evidence based emergency cardiovascular care guidelines for
cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the use of an automated external defibrillator.
3 
(i) Each local board of education which operates a school with grades 6 through 12
shall provide instruction in human trafficking awareness on an annual basis at each
grade level.
Authority O.C.G.A. §§ 20-2-142(b), (c); 20-2-143; 20-2-149.1; 20-2-777