Section 5. The School Code is amended by changing Section27-9.1 as follows:(105 ILCS 5/27-9.1) (from Ch. 122, par. 27-9.1)Sec. 27-9.1. Sex education.(a) In this Section:"Adapt" means to modify an evidence-based program model foruse with a particular demographic, ethnic, linguistic, orcultural group."Age appropriate" means suitable to particular ages or agegroups of children and adolescents, based on the developingcognitive, emotional, and behavioral capacity typical for theage or age group."Evidence-based program" means a program for whichsystematic, empirical research or evaluation has providedevidence of effectiveness."Medically accurate" means verified or supported by theweight of research conducted in compliance with acceptedscientific methods and published in peer-reviewed journals, ifapplicable, or comprising information recognized as accurate,objective, and complete.(a-5) No pupil shall be required to take or participate inany class or course in comprehensive sex education if hisparent or guardian submits written objection thereto, andrefusal to take or participate in such course or program shallnot be reason for suspension or expulsion of such pupil. Eachclass or course in comprehensive sex education offered in anyof grades 6 through 12 shall include instruction on bothabstinence and contraception for the prevention of pregnancyand sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS. Nothingin this Section prohibits instruction in sanitation, hygiene ortraditional courses in biology.(b) All public school classes that teach sex education anddiscuss sexual intercourse in grades 6 through 12 shallemphasize that abstinence from sexual intercourse is aresponsible and positive decision and is the only protectionthat is 100% effective against unwanted teenage pregnancy,sexually transmitted diseases, and acquired immune deficiencysyndrome (AIDS) when transmitted sexually.(c) All classes that teach sex education and discuss sexualintercourse in grades 6 through 12 shall satisfy the followingcriteria:(1) Course material and instruction shall bedevelopmentally and age appropriate, medically accurate,and complete.(1.5) Course material and instruction shall replicateevidence-based programs or substantially incorporateelements of evidence-based programs.(2) Course material and instruction shall teach honorand respect for monogamous heterosexual marriage.(3) Course material and instruction shall placesubstantial emphasis on both abstinence, includingabstinence until marriage, and contraception for theprevention of pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseasesamong youth and shall stress that abstinence is the ensuredmethod of avoiding unintended pregnancy, sexuallytransmitted diseases, and HIV/AIDS.(4) Course material and instruction shall include adiscussion of the possible emotional and psychologicalconsequences of preadolescent and adolescent sexualintercourse and the consequences of unwanted adolescentpregnancy.(5) Course material and instruction shall stress thatsexually transmitted diseases are serious possible hazardsof sexual intercourse. Pupils shall be provided withstatistics based on the latest medical information citingthe failure and success rates of condoms in preventing AIDSand other sexually transmitted diseases.(6) Course material and instruction shall advisepupils of the laws pertaining to their financialresponsibility to children born in and out of wedlock.(7) Course material and instruction shall advisepupils of the circumstances under which it is unlawful fora person to have sexual relations with an individualwho is under the age of 17 and for a person who is in aposition of trust, authority, or supervision to have sexualrelations with an individual who is under the age of 18pursuant to Article 11 of the Criminal Code of 2012.(8) Course material and instruction shall teach pupilsto not make unwanted physical and verbal sexual advancesand how to say no to unwanted sexual advances. Pupils shallbe taught that it is wrong to take advantage of or toexploit another person. The material and instruction shallalso encourage youth to resist negative peer pressure. Thematerial and instruction shall includediscussion on what maybe considered sexual harassment or sexual assault.(9) (Blank).(10) Course material and instruction shall teachpupils about the dangers associated with drug and alcoholconsumption during pregnancy.(11) Course material and instruction must include anage-appropriate discussion on the meaning of consent thatincludes discussion on recognizing all of the following:(A) That consent is a freely given agreement tosexual activity.(B) That consent to one particular sexual activitydoes not constitute consent to other types of sexualactivities.(C) That a person's lack of verbal or physicalresistance or submission resulting from the use orthreat of force does not constitute consent.(D) That a person's manner of dress does notconstitute consent.(E) That a person's consent to past sexual activitydoes not constitute consent to future sexual activity.(F) That a person's consent to engage in sexualactivity with one person does not constitute consent toengage in sexual activity with another person.(G) That a person can withdraw consent at any time.(H) That a person cannot consent to sexual activityif that person is unable to understand the nature ofthe activity or give knowing consent due to certaincircumstances that include, but are not limited to, (i)the person is incapacitated due to the use or influenceof alcohol or drugs, (ii) the person is asleep orunconscious, (iii) the person is a minor, or (iv) theperson is incapacitated due to a mental disability.(d) An opportunity shall be afforded to individuals,including parents or guardians, to examine the instructionalmaterials to be used in such class or course.(e) The State Board of Education shall make availableresource materials, with the cooperation and input of theagency that administers grant programs consistent withcriteria (1) and (1.5) of subsection (c) of this Section, foreducating children regarding sex education and may take intoconsideration the curriculum on this subject developed by otherstates, as well as any other curricular materials suggested byeducation experts and other groups that work on sex educationissues. Materials may include without limitation model sexeducation curriculums and sexual health education programs.The State Board of Education shall make these resourcematerials available on its Internet website. School districtsthat do not currently provide sex education are not required toteach sex education. If a sex education class or course isoffered in any of grades 6 through 12, the school district maychoose and adapt the developmentally and age-appropriate,medically accurate, evidence-based, and complete sex educationcurriculum that meets the specific needs of its community.