(105 ILCS 110/1) (from Ch. 122, par. 861)
    Sec. 1. Short title. This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Critical Health Problems and Comprehensive Health Education Act".
(Source: P.A. 77-1405.)

    (105 ILCS 110/2) (from Ch. 122, par. 862)
    Sec. 2. Definitions. The following term has the following meaning, except as the context otherwise requires:
    "Comprehensive Health Education Program": a systematic and extensive educational program designed to provide a variety of learning experiences based upon scientific knowledge of the human organism as it functions within its environment which will favorably influence the knowledge, attitudes, values and practices of Illinois school youth; and which will aid them in making wise personal decisions in matters of health.
(Source: P.A. 99-78, eff. 7-20-15.)
Sec. 3. Comprehensive Health Education Program. The program established under this Act shall include, but not be limited to, the following major educational areas as a basis for curricula in all elementary and secondary schools in this State: human ecology and health; human growth and development; the emotional, psychological, physiological, hygienic, and social responsibilities of family life, including sexual abstinence until marriage; the prevention and control of disease, including instruction in grades 6 through 12 on the prevention, transmission, and spread of AIDS; age-appropriate sexual abuse and assault awareness and prevention education in grades pre-kindergarten through 12; public and environmental health; consumer health; safety education and disaster survival; mental health and illness; personal health habits; alcohol and drug use and abuse, including the medical and legal ramifications of alcohol, drug, and tobacco use; abuse during pregnancy; evidence-based and medically accurate information regarding sexual abstinence; tobacco and e-cigarettes and other vapor devices; nutrition; and dental health. The instruction on mental health and illness must evaluate the multiple dimensions of health by reviewing the relationship between physical and mental health so as to enhance student understanding, attitudes, and behaviors that promote health, well-being, and human dignity and must include how and where to find mental health resources and specialized treatment in the State. The program shall also provide course material and instruction to advise pupils of the Abandoned Newborn Infant Protection Act. The program shall include information about cancer, including, without limitation, types of cancer, signs and symptoms, risk factors, the importance of early prevention and detection, and information on where to go for help. Notwithstanding the above educational areas, the following areas may also be included as a basis for curricula in all elementary and secondary schools in this State: basic first aid (including, but not limited to, cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the Heimlich maneuver), heart disease, diabetes, stroke, the prevention of child abuse, neglect, and suicide, and teen dating violence in grades 7 through 12. Beginning with the 2014-2015 school year, training on how to properly administer cardiopulmonary resuscitation (which training must be in accordance with standards of the American Red Cross, the American Heart Association, or another nationally recognized certifying organization) and how to use an automated external defibrillator shall be included as a basis for curricula in all secondary schools in this State.
    The school board of each public elementary and secondary school in the State shall encourage all teachers and other school personnel to acquire, develop, and maintain the knowledge and skills necessary to properly administer life-saving techniques, including, without limitation, the Heimlich maneuver and rescue breathing. The training shall be in accordance with standards of the American Red Cross, the American Heart Association, or another nationally recognized certifying organization. A school board may use the services of non-governmental entities whose personnel have expertise in life-saving techniques to instruct teachers and other school personnel in these techniques. Each school board is encouraged to have in its employ, or on its volunteer staff, at least one person who is certified, by the American Red Cross or by another qualified certifying agency, as qualified to administer first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation. In addition, each school board is authorized to allocate appropriate portions of its institute or inservice days to conduct training programs for teachers and other school personnel who have expressed an interest in becoming qualified to administer emergency first aid or cardiopulmonary resuscitation. School boards are urged to encourage their teachers and other school personnel who coach school athletic programs and other extracurricular school activities to acquire, develop, and maintain the knowledge and skills necessary to properly administer first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation in accordance with standards and requirements established by the American Red Cross or another qualified certifying agency. Subject to appropriation, the State Board of Education shall establish and administer a matching grant program to pay for half of the cost that a school district incurs in training those teachers and other school personnel who express an interest in becoming qualified to administer cardiopulmonary resuscitation (which training must be in accordance with standards of the American Red Cross, the American Heart Association, or another nationally recognized certifying organization) or in learning how to use an automated external defibrillator. A school district that applies for a grant must demonstrate that it has funds to pay half of the cost of the training for which matching grant money is sought. The State Board of Education shall award the grants on a first-come, first-serve basis.
    No pupil shall be required to take or participate in any class or course on AIDS or family life instruction or to receive training on how to properly administer cardiopulmonary resuscitation or how to use an automated external defibrillator if his or her parent or guardian submits written objection thereto, and refusal to take or participate in the course or program or the training shall not be reason for suspension or expulsion of the pupil.
    Curricula developed under programs established in accordance with this Act in the major educational area of alcohol and drug use and abuse shall include classroom instruction in grades 5 through 12. The instruction, which shall include matters relating to both the physical and legal effects and ramifications of drug and substance abuse, shall be integrated into existing curricula; and the State Board of Education shall develop and make available to all elementary and secondary schools in this State instructional materials and guidelines which will assist the schools in incorporating the instruction into their existing curricula. In addition, school districts may offer, as part of existing curricula during the school day or as part of an after school program, support services and instruction for pupils or pupils whose parent, parents, or guardians are chemically dependent. Curricula developed under programs established in accordance with this Act in the major educational area of alcohol and drug use and abuse shall include the instruction, study, and discussion required under subsection (c) of Section 27-13.2 of the School Code.
(Source: P.A. 102-464, eff. 8-20-21; 102-558, eff. 8-20-21; 102-1034, eff. 1-1-23; 103-365, eff. 1-1-24.)
(105 ILCS 110/3.5)
    Sec. 3.5. Nutrition and physical activity best practices database.
    (a) The State Board of Education shall develop and maintain a nutrition and physical activity best practices database. The database shall contain the results of any wellness-related fitness testing done by local school districts, as well as information on successful programs and policies implemented by local school districts designed to improve nutrition and physical activity in the public and charter schools. This information may include (i) a description of the program or policy, (ii) advice on implementation, (iii) any assessment of the program or policy, (iv) a contact person from the local school district, and (v) any other information the State Board of Education deems appropriate. The database shall be readily accessible to all local school districts Statewide. The State Board of Education shall encourage local school districts to submit information to the database, however no school district shall be required to submit information.
    (b) The State Board of Education may adopt rules necessary for administration of this Section.
    (c) The requirements of the State Board of Education to establish this database shall become effective once the State Board of Education has secured all of the funding necessary to implement it.
(Source: P.A. 96-1223, eff. 7-23-10.)
Sec. 3.10. Policy on teen dating violence.
    (a) As used in this Section:
    "Dating" or "dating relationship" means an ongoing social relationship of a romantic or intimate nature between 2 persons. "Dating" or "dating relationship" does not include a casual relationship or ordinary fraternization between 2 persons in a business or social context.
    "Teen dating violence" means either of the following:
        (1) A pattern of behavior in which a person uses or
    	
threatens to use physical, mental, or emotional abuse to control another person who is in a dating relationship with the person, where one or both persons are 13 to 19 years of age.
        (2) Behavior by which a person uses or threatens to
    	
use sexual violence against another person who is in a dating relationship with the person, where one or both persons are 13 to 19 years of age.
    (b) The school board of each public school district in this State shall adopt a policy that does all of the following:
        (1) States that teen dating violence is unacceptable
    	
and is prohibited and that each student has the right to a safe learning environment.
        (2) Incorporates age-appropriate education about teen
    	
dating violence into new or existing training programs for students in grades 7 through 12 and school employees as outlined in Sections 10-22.39 and 3-11 of the School Code.
        (3) Establishes procedures for the manner in which
    	
employees of a school are to respond to incidents of teen dating violence that take place at the school, on school grounds, at school-sponsored activities, or in vehicles used for school-provided transportation.
        (4) Identifies by job title the school officials who
    	
are responsible for receiving reports related to teen dating violence.
        (5) Notifies students and parents of the teen dating
    	
violence policy adopted by the board.
(Source: P.A. 103-542, eff. 7-1-24 (see Section 905 of P.A. 103-563 for effective date of P.A. 103-542).)

    (105 ILCS 110/4) (from Ch. 122, par. 864)
    Sec. 4. Powers of the State Board of Education. In order to carry out the purposes of this Act the State Board of Education is empowered to:
    (a) Establish the minimum amount of instruction time to be devoted to comprehensive health education at all elementary and secondary grade levels.
    (b) Establish guidelines to aid local school districts in developing comprehensive health education programs at all grade levels.
    (c) Establish special in-service programs to provide professional preparation in the field of health education for teachers and administrators throughout the schools of the State.
    (d) Develop cooperative health training programs between school districts and institutions of higher education whereby qualified health education personnel of such institutions will be available to guide the continuing professional preparation of teachers in health education.
    (e) Encourage institutions of higher education to develop and extend curricula in health education for professional preparation in both in-service and pre-service programs.
    (f) Assist in the development of evaluative techniques which will insure that a comprehensive program in health education is being conducted throughout the State which meets the needs of Illinois youth.
    (g) Make sure additions to the staff of the State Board of Education to insure a sufficient number of health education personnel to effectuate the purposes of this Act.
(Source: P.A. 81-1508.)

    (105 ILCS 110/5) (from Ch. 122, par. 865)
    Sec. 5. Advisory Committee. An advisory committee consisting of 11 members is hereby established as follows: the Director of Public Health or his or her designee, the Secretary of Human Services or his or her designee, and an additional person representing the Department of Human Services designated by the Secretary, the Director of Children and Family Services or his or her designee, and 7 members to be appointed by the State Board of Education to be chosen, insofar as is possible, from the following groups: colleges and universities, voluntary health agencies, medicine, dentistry, professional health associations, teachers, administrators, members of local boards of education, and lay citizens. The original public members shall, upon their appointment, serve until July 1, 1973, and, thereafter, new appointments of public members shall be made in like manner and such members shall serve for 4 year terms commencing on July 1, 1973, and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Vacancies in the terms of public members shall be filled in like manner as original appointments for the balance of the unexpired terms. The members of the advisory committee shall receive no compensation but shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. Such committee shall select a chairman and establish rules and procedures for its proceedings not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act. Such committee shall advise the State Board of Education on all matters relating to the implementation of the provisions of this Act. They shall assist in presenting advice and interpretation concerning a comprehensive health education program to the Illinois public, especially as related to critical health problems. They shall also assist in establishing a sound understanding and sympathetic relationship between such comprehensive health education program and the public health, welfare and educational programs of other agencies in the community.
(Source: P.A. 99-30, eff. 7-10-15.)

    (105 ILCS 110/6) (from Ch. 122, par. 866)
    Sec. 6. Rules and Regulations. In carrying out the powers and duties of the State Board of Education and the advisory committee established by this Act, the State Board and such committee are authorized to promulgate rules and regulations in order to implement the provisions of this Act.
(Source: P.A. 81-1508.)