
    Section 5. The School Code is amended by changing Section
27-9.1 as follows:
 
    (105 ILCS 5/27-9.1)  (from Ch. 122, par. 27-9.1)
    Sec. 27-9.1. Sex Education.
    (a) In this Section:
    "Adapt" means to modify an evidence-based program model for use with a particular demographic, ethnic, linguistic, or cultural group.
    "Age appropriate" means suitable to particular ages or age groups of children and adolescents, based on the developing cognitive, emotional, and behavioral capacity typical for the age or age group.
    "Evidence-based program" means a program for which systematic, empirical research or evaluation has provided evidence of effectiveness.
    "Medically accurate" means verified or supported by the weight of research conducted in compliance with accepted scientific methods and published in peer-reviewed journals, if applicable, or comprising information recognized as accurate, objective, and complete.
    (a-5) No pupil shall be required to take or participate in any class or course in comprehensive sex education if his parent or guardian submits written objection thereto, and refusal to take or participate in such course or program shall not be reason for suspension or expulsion of such pupil. Each class or course in comprehensive sex education offered in any of grades 6 through 12 shall include instruction on both abstinence and contraception for the prevention of pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS. Nothing in this Section prohibits instruction in sanitation, hygiene or traditional courses in biology.
    (b) All public school classes that teach sex education and discuss sexual intercourse in grades 6 through 12 shall emphasize that abstinence from sexual intercourse is a responsible and positive decision and is the only protection that is 100% effective against unwanted teenage pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, and acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) when transmitted sexually.
    (c) All classes that teach sex education and discuss sexual intercourse in grades 6 through 12 shall satisfy the following criteria:
        (1) Course material and instruction shall be developmentally and age appropriate, medically accurate, and complete.
        (1.5) Course material and instruction shall replicate evidence-based programs or substantially incorporate elements of evidence-based programs.
        (2) Course material and instruction shall teach honor and respect for monogamous heterosexual marriage.
        (3) Course material and instruction shall place substantial emphasis on both abstinence, including abstinence until marriage, and contraception for the prevention of pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases among youth and shall stress that abstinence is the ensured method of avoiding unintended pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, and HIV/AIDS.
        (4) Course material and instruction shall include a discussion of the possible emotional and psychological consequences of preadolescent and adolescent sexual intercourse and the consequences of unwanted adolescent pregnancy.
        (5) Course material and instruction shall stress that sexually transmitted diseases are serious possible hazards of sexual intercourse. Pupils shall be provided with statistics based on the latest medical information citing the failure and success rates of condoms in preventing AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases.
        (6) Course material and instruction shall advise pupils of the laws pertaining to their financial responsibility to children born in and out of wedlock.
        (7) Course material and instruction shall advise pupils of the circumstances under which it is unlawful for males to have sexual relations with females under the age of 18 to whom they are not married pursuant to Article 11 of the Criminal Code of 2012.
        (8) Course material and instruction shall teach pupils to not make unwanted physical and verbal sexual advances and how to say no to unwanted sexual advances. Pupils shall be taught that it is wrong to take advantage of or to exploit another person. The material and instruction shall also encourage youth to resist negative peer pressure.
        (9) (Blank).
        (10) Course material and instruction shall teach pupils about the dangers associated with drug and alcohol consumption during pregnancy.
    (d) An opportunity shall be afforded to individuals, including parents or guardians, to examine the instructional materials to be used in such class or course.
    (e) The State Board of Education shall make available resource materials, with the cooperation and input of the agency that administers grant programs consistent with criteria (1) and (1.5) of subsection (c) of this Section, for educating children regarding sex education and may take into consideration the curriculum on this subject developed by other states, as well as any other curricular materials suggested by education experts and other groups that work on sex education issues. Materials may include without limitation model sex education curriculums and sexual health education programs.
The State Board of Education shall make these resource materials available on its Internet website. School districts that do not currently provide sex education are not required to teach sex education. If a sex education class or course is offered in any of grades 6 through 12, the school district may choose and adapt the developmentally and age-appropriate, medically accurate, evidence-based, and complete sex education curriculum that meets the specific needs of its community.
(Source: P.A. 96-1082, eff. 7-16-10; 97-1150, eff. 1-25-13.)
 
    Section 10. The Critical Health Problems and Comprehensive Health Education Act is amended by changing Section 3 as follows:
 
    (105 ILCS 110/3)
    Sec. 3. Comprehensive Health Education Program. The program established under this Act shall include, but not be limited to, the following major educational areas as a basis for curricula in all elementary and secondary schools in this State: human ecology and health, human growth and development, the emotional, psychological, physiological, hygienic and social responsibilities of family life, including sexual abstinence until marriage, prevention and control of disease, including instruction in grades 6 through 12 on the prevention, transmission and spread of AIDS, age-appropriate sexual abuse and assault awareness and prevention education in grades pre-kindergarten through 12, public and environmental health, consumer health, safety education and disaster survival, mental health and illness, personal health habits, alcohol, drug use, and abuse including the medical and legal ramifications of alcohol, drug, and tobacco use, abuse during pregnancy, evidence-based and medically accurate information regarding sexual abstinence, tobacco, nutrition, and dental health. The program shall also provide course material and instruction to advise pupils of the
Abandoned Newborn Infant Protection Act. The program shall include information about cancer, including without limitation types of cancer, signs and symptoms, risk factors, the importance of early prevention and detection, and informatioN on where to go for help. Notwithstanding the above educational areas, the following areas may also be included as a basis for curricula in all elementary and secondary schools in this
State: basic first aid (including, but not limited to, cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the Heimlich maneuver), heart disease, diabetes, stroke, the prevention of child abuse, neglect, and suicide, and teen dating violence in grades 8 through 12.
    The school board of each public elementary and secondary school in the State shall encourage all teachers and other school personnel to acquire, develop, and maintain the knowledge and skills necessary to properly administer life-saving techniques, including without limitation the Heimlich maneuver and rescue breathing. The training shall be in accordance with standards of the American Red Cross, the American Heart Association, or another nationally recognized certifying organization. A school board may use the services of non-governmental entities whose personnel have expertise in life-saving techniques to instruct teachers and other school personnel in these techniques. Each school board is encouraged to have in its employ, or on its volunteer staff, at least one person who is certified, by the American Red Cross or by another qualified certifying agency, as qualified to administer first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation. In addition, each school board is authorized to allocate appropriate portions of its institute or inservice days to conduct training programs for teachers and other school personnel who have expressed an interest in becoming qualified to administer emergency first aid or cardiopulmonary resuscitation. School boards are urged to encourage their teachers and other school personnel who coach school athletic programs and other extracurricular school activities to acquire, develop, and maintain the knowledge and skills necessary to properly administer first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation in accordance with standards and requirements
established by the American Red Cross or another qualified certifying agency. Subject to appropriation, the State Board of Education shall establish and administer a matching grant program to pay for half of the cost that a school district incurs in training those teachers and other school personnel who express an interest in becoming qualified to administer cardiopulmonary resuscitation (which training must be in accordance with standards of the American Red Cross, the American Heart Association, or another nationally recognized certifying organization) or in learning how to use an automated external defibrillator. A school district that applies for a grant must demonstrate that it has funds to pay half of the cost of the training for which matching grant money is sought. The State Board of Education shall award the grants on a
first-come, first-serve basis.
    No pupil shall be required to take or participate in any class or course on AIDS or family life instruction if his parent or guardian submits written objection thereto, and refusal to take or participate in the course or program shall not be reason for suspension or expulsion of the pupil.
    Curricula developed under programs established in accordance with this Act in the major educational area of alcohol and drug use and abuse shall include classroom instruction in grades 5 through 12. The instruction, which shall include matters relating to both the physical and legal effects and ramifications of drug and substance abuse, shall be integrated into existing curricula; and the State Board of Education shall develop and make available to all elementary and secondary schools in this State instructional materials and
guidelines which will assist the schools in incorporating the instruction into their existing curricula. In addition, school districts may offer, as part of existing curricula during the school day or as part of an after school program, support services and instruction for pupils or pupils whose parent, parents, or guardians are chemically dependent.
(Source: P.A. 96-128, eff. 1-1-10; 96-328, eff. 8-11-09;
96-383, eff. 1-1-10; 96-1000, eff. 7-2-10; 97-1147, eff.
1-24-13.)