SECTION 1. IC 20-30-5-17, AS AMENDED BY P.L.286-2013,
SECTION95,ISAMENDEDTOREADASFOLLOWS[EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2018]: Sec. 17. (a) A Each school corporation shall make
available for inspection by the parent of a student any instructional
materials, including
teachers' manuals,
curricular materials,
films or other video materials,
tapes, and
other materials,
used in connection with:
(1) a personal analysis, an evaluation, or a survey described in
subsection (b); or
(2) instruction on human sexuality.
(b) A student shall not be required to participate in a personal
analysis, an evaluation, or a survey that is not directly related to
academic instruction and thatreveals or attempts to affect the student's
attitudes, habits, traits, opinions, beliefs, or feelings concerning:
(1) political affiliations;
(2) religious beliefs or practices;
(3) mental or psychological conditions that may embarrass the
student or the student's family;
(4) sexual behavior or attitudes;
(5) illegal, antisocial,self-incriminating, or demeaning behavior;
(6) critical appraisals of other individuals with whom the student
has a close family relationship;
(7) legally recognized privileged or confidential relationships,
including a relationship with a lawyer, minister, or physician; or
(8) income (except asrequired by law to determine eligibility for
participation in a program or for receiving financial assistance
under a program);
without the prior consent of the student if the student is an adult or an
emancipated minor or the prior written consent of the student's parent
if the student is an unemancipated minor. A parental consent form for
a personal analysis, an evaluation, or a survey described in thissection
subsection shall accurately reflect the contents and nature of the
personal analysis, evaluation, or survey.
(c) Before a school may provide a student with instruction on human sexuality, the school must provide the parent of the student or the student, if the student is an adult or an emancipated minor, with a written request for consent of instruction. A consent form provided to a parent of a student or a student under this subsection must accurately summarize the contents and nature of the instruction on human sexuality that will be provided to the student and indicate that a parent of a student or an adult or emancipated minor student has the right to review and inspect all materials related to the instruction on human sexuality. The written consent form may be sent in an electronic format. The parent of the student or the student, if the student is an adult or an emancipated minor, may return the consent form indicating that the parent of the student or the adult or emancipated student: (1) consents to the instruction; or (2) declines instruction. If a student does not participate in the instruction on human sexuality, the school shall provide the student with alternative academic instruction during the same time frame that the instruction on human sexuality is provided. (d) If the parent of the student or the student, if the student is an adult or an emancipated minor, does not respond to the written request provided by the school under subsection (c) within twenty-one (21) calendar days after receiving the request under subsection (c),the school shall provide the parent of the student, or the student, if the student is an adult or an emancipated minor, a written notice requesting that the parent of the student, or thestudent, if the student is an adult or an emancipated minor, indicate, in a manner prescribed by the school, whether the parent of the student or the adult or emancipated student: (1) consents to the instruction; or (2) declines instruction. A notice provided to a parent of a student or a student under this subsection must accurately summarize the contents and nature of the instruction on human sexuality that will be provided to the student and indicate that a parent of a student or an adult or emancipated minor student has the right to review and inspect all materials related to the instruction on human sexuality. The notice may be sent in an electronic format. If the school does not receive a response within ten (10) days after the notice, the student will receive the instruction on human sexuality unless the parent or the adult or emancipated student subsequently opts out of the instruction for the student.
(e) The department and the governing body shall give parents
and students notice of their rights under this section.
(f) The governing body shall enforce this section.