A.(1)(a) Any public elementary or secondary school in Louisiana may, but is not required to, offer instruction in subject matter designated as “sex education”, provided such instruction and subject matter is integrated into an existing course of study such as biology, science, physical hygiene, or physical education. When offered, such instruction shall be available also to nongraded special education students at age-appropriate levels. Except as otherwise required to comply with theprovisions of Subparagraph (b) of this Paragraph, whether or not instruction in such matter is offered and at what grade level it is to be offered shall be at the option of each public local or parish school board, provided that no such instruction shall be offered in kindergarten or in grades one through six. Such instruction may be offered at times other than during the regular school day, at such times to be determined by each school board. All instruction in “sex education” shall beidentified and designated “sex education”.(b) Effective beginning with the spring semester of the 1992-1993 school year and thereafter, whenever instruction in sex education is offered by any school, such instruction shall be available also to any student in such school, regardless of the student’s grade level, who is pregnant or who is a mother or father.(2) It is the intent of the legislature that, for the purposes of this Section, “sex education” shall mean the dissemination of factual biological or pathological information that is related to the human reproduction system and may include the study of sexually transmitted disease, pregnancy, childbirth, puberty, menstruation, and menopause, as well as the dissemination of factual information about parental responsibilities under the child support laws of the state. It is the intent of the legislature that “sex education” shall not include religious beliefs, practices in human sexuality, nor the subjective moral and ethical judgments of the instructor or other persons. Students shall not be tested, quizzed, or surveyed about their personal or family beliefs or practices in sex, morality, or religion.(3) No contraceptive or abortifacient drug, device, or other similar product shall be distributed at any public school. No sex education course offered in the public schools of the state shall utilize any sexually explicit materials depicting male or female homosexual activity.(4) The major emphasis of any sex education instruction offered in the public schools of this state shall be to encourage sexual abstinence between unmarried persons and any such instruction shall:(a) Emphasize abstinence from sexual activity outside of marriage as the expected standard for all school-age children.(b) Emphasize that abstinence from sexual activity is a way to avoid unwanted pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, including acquired immune deficiency syndrome, and other associated health problems.(c) Emphasize that each student has the power to control personal behavior and to encourage students to base action on reasoning, self-esteem, and respect for others.