(1) Each governing authority of a public elementary or secondary school 13 shall adopt policies, in accordance with policies 14 adopted by the State Board of Elementary and Secondary Education, regarding 15 access by students and employees to Internet and online sites that contain or make 16 reference to harmful material the character of which is such that it is reasonably 17 believed to be obscene, child pornography, conducive to the creation of a hostile or 18 dangerous school environment, pervasively vulgar, excessively violent, or sexually 19 harassing in the school environment all as defined by any applicable state or federal 20 laws and the policies adopted pursuant to this Subsection. Such policies shall include 21 but not be limited to prohibitions against accessing sites containing information on 22 the manufacturing or production of bombs or other incendiary devices. 23 (2) Any policies adopted by a governing authority of a public elementary 24 or secondary school pursuant to the provisions of this Subsection shall 25 include the use of computer-related technology or the use of Internet service provider 26 technology designed to block access or exposure to any harmful material as specified 27 in Paragraph (1) of this Subsection, or both.(3) The provisions of this Subsection shall not prohibit any 2 authorized employee or student of a public elementary or secondary school from 3 having unfiltered or unrestricted access to the Internet or an online service for 4 legitimate scientific or educational purposes as determined and approved by the 5 employing governing authority. 6 (4) The provisions of this Subsection shall not prohibit any 7 authorized student in a public elementary or secondary school from having unfiltered 8 or unrestricted access to the Internet or online services of a newspaper with a daily 9 circulation of at least one thousand. 10 B.(1) The state Department of Education shall prepare information to be 11 distributed to each public school governing authority for dissemination to the 12 parent of each student enrolled in a school under its jurisdiction regarding the 13 public health risks and harms associated with pornography. 14 (2) The information shall include the following: 15 (a) The dangers of sexually charged cyberbullying. 16 (b) The addictive and destructive nature of pornographic and illicit 17 materials. 18 (c) The dangers of internet interaction with strangers. 19 (d) Resources available to parents who are seeking information 20 regarding child safeguards and free internet filters for home computers. A list 21 of free internet filters that filter out pornography shall also be provided.