    18.  Model policy; child sexual abuse prevention.   The commissioner shall develop a model policy for child sexual abuse prevention education and response that may be used for public preschool programs operated in compliance with chapter 203, subchapter 3 and for all students enrolled in kindergarten to grade 5.A.  No later than July 1, 2016, the commissioner, in consultation with the Department of Health and Human Services, organizations that have expertise in child sexual abuse prevention education and organizations representing school boards, administrators, teachers and parents, shall develop a model policy based on nationally recognized best practices that includes:(1) Child sexual abuse response and reporting procedures;(2) Child sexual abuse awareness training and prevention education for school personnel;(3) Age-appropriate child sexual abuse prevention education for students, aligned to the system of learning results established pursuant to section 6209 and delivered by qualified instructors;(4) School response and reporting procedures; and(5) Resources a victim of child sexual abuse or nonoffending caregivers of a victim of child sexual abuse may access for services and support.B.  The department shall offer technical assistance to school administrative units that operate a public preschool program or an elementary school to aid in the establishment of a local child sexual abuse prevention education and response policy that is consistent with the model policy developed under paragraph A.C.  The department shall send a copy of the model policy developed under paragraph A to each school administrative unit in the State and post the model policy on the publicly accessible portion of the department's website along with any related resources that the commissioner determines necessary.   Sec. 2. 20-A MRSA §4502, sub-§5-C  is enacted to read:    5-C.  Child sexual abuse prevention education and response.   Beginning in the 2017-2018 school year, a school administrative unit that operates a public preschool program or an elementary school shall adopt a written local policy for child sexual abuse prevention education and response that is consistent with the model policy developed by the commissioner pursuant to section 254, subsection 18.