Sec. 1. 20-A MRSA §4723, as enacted by PL 1983, c. 859, Pt. C. §§5 and 7, is
amended to read:
§4723. Health and physical education
The secondary course of study shall must include instruction in health, safety and
physical education, as prescribed by the commissioner, and physiology and hygiene, with
special reference to the effects of alcoholic drinks, stimulants and narcotics upon the
human system. The secondary course of study must also include instruction on
affirmative consent, communication and decision making regarding sexual activity and
the effects of alcoholic drinks, stimulants and narcotics on the ability to give affirmative
consent, communicate and make appropriate decisions. For purposes of this section,
"affirmative consent" means consent to sexual activity that can be revoked at any time
and does not include silence, lack of resistance or consent given while intoxicated.
Sec. 2. 20-A MRSA §6209, sub-§4, as amended by PL 2015, c. 489, §6, is
further amended to read:
4. Review cycle. The commissioner shall conduct a review of the content standards
and performance indicators by content area on a 5-year cycle beginning in the 2015-2016
school year. The review of the content standards and performance indicators for the
content area of social studies, including student achievement of proficiency in personal
finance, must be included in the commissioner's review during the 2015-2016 school year. Any changes that are recommended must be approved through the same process
used for establishment of the system of learning results. Beginning in the 2016-2017
school year, the commissioner shall review and make recommendations for objective
measures that may be used to substantiate school certifications of postsecondary
readiness. The review of the content standards and performance indicators for the content
area of health, physical education and wellness, including instruction on affirmative
consent, communication and decision making regarding sexual activity and the effects of
alcoholic drinks, stimulants and narcotics on the ability to give affirmative consent,
communicate and make appropriate decisions, must be included in the commissioner's
review beginning in the 2019-2020 school year.