§1902. Definitions    As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following terms have the following meanings.     1.  Contraceptive procedures.  "Contraceptive procedures" means any medically accepted procedure to prevent pregnancy when performed by or under the direction of a health care practitioner on a requesting and consenting patient.      1-A.  Comprehensive family life education.  "Comprehensive family life education" means education in kindergarten to grade 12 regarding human development and sexuality, including education on family planning and sexually transmitted diseases, that is medically accurate and age appropriate; that respects community values and encourages parental communication; that develops skills in communication, decision making and conflict resolution; that contributes to healthy relationships; that promotes responsible sexual behavior with an emphasis on abstinence; that addresses the use of contraception; that promotes individual responsibility and involvement regarding sexuality; and that teaches skills for responsible decision making regarding sexuality.      2.  Contraceptive supplies.  "Contraceptive supplies" means those medically approved drugs, prescriptions, rhythm charts, devices and other items designed to prevent pregnancy through chemical, mechanical, behavioral or other means.      3.  Family planning.  "Family planning" means informed and voluntary self-determination of desired family size and of the timing of child bearing based upon comprehensive knowledge of factors pertinent to this determination.      4.  Family planning services.  "Family planning services" means medically safe and effective sexual and reproductive health care and education that enable persons to freely plan their children, avoid unintended pregnancy and maintain reproductive and sexual health through the provision of contraceptive supplies, contraceptive procedures and related counseling; the prevention and treatment of infertility; appropriate prenatal and obstetric care; the prevention or treatment of sexually transmitted infections; and other services necessary for reproductive and sexual health.      5.  Physician.     5-A.  Health care practitioner.  "Health care practitioner" means an individual who is licensed, certified or otherwise authorized under the laws of the State to provide health care services.      6.  Person.  "Person" means any person regardless of sex, race, sexual orientation, gender identity, number of children, marital status, motive and citizenship.  