Article 7 Sexual Abuse and Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention
 Sec. 14.30.355.   Sexual abuse and sexual assault awareness and prevention. 
 (a) The governing body of each school district shall adopt and implement a policy, establish a training program for employees and students, and provide parent notices relating to sexual abuse and sexual assault awareness and prevention for students enrolled in grades kindergarten through 12.

 (b) The policy, training, and notices adopted under this section must include
     (1) age-appropriate information;

     (2) warning signs of sexual abuse of a child;

     (3) referral and resource information;

     (4) available student counseling and educational support;

     (5) methods for increasing teacher, student, and parent awareness of issues regarding sexual abuse of children;

     (6) actions that a child may take to prevent and report sexual abuse or sexual assault; and

     (7) a procedure allowing a student to be excused from participating in training or from receiving notices under this section at the written request of a parent or guardian of the student, or of the student if the student is emancipated or 18 years of age or older.

 (c) The training required for teachers under this section may be provided as a part of the continuing education required under AS 18.66.310.

 (d) In this section,
     (1) “school district” has the meaning given in AS 14.30.350;

     (2) “sexual abuse” or “sexual assault” has the meaning given to “sexual abuse” in AS 47.10.990.




 Sec. 14.30.356.   Teen dating violence and abuse awareness and prevention program; training and notices. 
 (a) The department, in consultation with school districts, shall develop and approve a program relating to teen dating violence and abuse awareness and prevention for grades seven through 12. The program must
     (1) include training for employees and students;

     (2) provide parent notices; and

     (3) be reviewed periodically by a qualified individual or committee for consistency with generally accepted standards for a teen dating violence and abuse awareness and prevention program.

 (b) The training, notices, and instruction adopted under this section must include
     (1) age-appropriate information;

     (2) the warning signs of dating violence and abusive behavior;

     (3) characteristics of healthy relationships;

     (4) measures to prevent and stop dating violence and abuse;

     (5) community resources available to victims of dating violence and abuse; and

     (6) a procedure allowing a student to be excused from participating in training or from receiving notices under this section at the written request of a parent or guardian of the student, or of the student if the student is emancipated or 18 years of age or older.

 (c) The training required for teachers under this section may be provided as a part of the continuing education required under AS 18.66.310.

 (d) In this section,
     (1) “dating violence and abuse” means a pattern of behavior in which one person threatens to use, or actually uses, physical, sexual, verbal, emotional, or psychological abuse to control the person's dating partner;

     (2) “school district” has the meaning given in AS 14.30.350.

Article 8. Health, Safety, and Physical Education.Sec. 14.30.360. Health education curriculum; physical activity guidelines.  (a) Each district in the state public school system shall be encouraged to initiate and conduct a program in health education for kindergarten through grade 12. The program should include instruction in physical health and personal safety including alcohol and drug abuse education, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), early cancer prevention and detection, dental health, family health including infant care, environmental health, the identification and prevention of child abuse, child abduction, neglect, sexual abuse, and domestic violence, and appropriate use of health services. (b) The state board shall establish guidelines for a health and personal safety education program. Personal safety guidelines shall be developed in consultation with the Council on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. Upon request, the Department of Education and Early Development, the Department of Health and Social Services, and the Council on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault shall provide technical assistance to school districts in the development of personal safety curricula. A school health education specialist position shall be established and funded in the department to coordinate the program statewide. Adequate funds to enable curriculum and resource development, adequate consultation to school districts, and a program of teacher training in health and personal safety education shall be provided.