"20-5-103. Compulsory attendance and excuses. (1) Except as provided in subsection (2), any parent, guardian, or other person who is responsible for the care of any child who is 7 years of age or older prior to the first day of school in any school fiscal year shall cause the child to attend the school in which the child is enrolled for the school term and each school day in the term prescribed by the trustees of the district until the later of the following dates: (a) the child's 16th birthday; or (b) the date of completion of the work of the 8th grade. (2) The provisions of subsection (1) do not apply in the following cases: (a) The child has been excused under one of the conditions specified in 20-5-102. (b) The child is absent because of illness, bereavement, or other reason prescribed by the policies of the trustees. (c) The child has been suspended or expelled under the provisions of 20-5-202. (d) The child is excused pursuant to [section 2]."Section 2. Excused absences from curriculum requirements -- notice -- prohibited activities. (1) A parent, guardian, or other person who is responsible for the care of a child may refuse to allow the child to attend or withdraw the child from a course of instruction, a class period, an assembly, an organized school function, or instruction provided by the district through its staff or guests invited at the request of the district regarding human sexuality instruction. The withdrawal or refusal to attend is an excused absence pursuant to 20-5-103. (2) Any school implementing or maintaining a curriculum, providing materials, or holding an event or assembly at which the district provides human sexuality instruction, whether introduced by school educators, administrators, or officials or by guests invited at the request of the school, shall adopt a policy ensuring parental or guardian notification no less than 48 hours prior to holding an event or assembly or introducing materials for instructional use. (3) A school district shall annually notify the parent or guardian of each student scheduled to be enrolled in human sexuality instruction in the district or school in advance of the instruction of: (a) the basic content of the district's or school's human sexuality instruction intended to be taught to the student; and (b) the parent's or guardian's right to withdraw the student from the district's or school's human sexuality instruction. (4) A school district shall make all curriculum materials used in the district's or school's human sexuality instruction available for public inspection prior to the use of the materials in actual instruction. (5) A school district or its personnel or agents may not permit a person, entity, or any affiliate or agent of the person or entity to offer, sponsor, or furnish in any manner any course materials or instruction relating to human sexuality or sexually transmitted diseases to its students or personnel if the person, entity, or any affiliate or agent of the person or entity is a provider of abortion services. (6) For purposes of this section, “human sexuality instruction” means teaching or otherwise providing information about human sexuality, including intimate relationships, human sexual anatomy, sexual reproduction, sexually transmitted infections, sexual acts, sexual orientation, gender identity, abstinence, contraception, or reproductive rights and responsibilities.Section 3. Codification instruction. [Section 2] is intended to be codified as an integral part of Title 20, chapter 7, and the provisions of Title 20, chapter 7, apply to [section 2]. Section 4. Severability. If a part of [this act] is invalid, all valid parts that are severable from the invalid part remain in effect. If a part of [this act] is invalid in one or more of its applications, the part remains in effect in all valid applications that are severable from the invalid applications.