IX.
Instruction as to Child Abuse Prevention, Youth Suicide Prevention, Intoxicants, Drugs, HIV/AIDS, and Sexually Transmitted Diseases.
(a) Direct the department to develop academic standards to serve as a guide and reference in health, physiology, and hygiene as they relate to the effects of alcohol and other drugs, child abuse, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), and sexually transmitted diseases on the human system, and which are designed to help students lead longer, healthier lives.
(b) Provide information about HIV/AIDS to all public and private schools to facilitate the delivery of appropriate courses and programs.
(c) Review HIV/AIDS curriculum materials to assure relevancy in assisting students to become health-literate citizens and lead longer, healthier lives.
(d) Provide information about youth suicide prevention to all public and private schools to facilitate the delivery of appropriate courses and programs.
(e) Submit a report no later than December 1, 2010, and biennially thereafter, prepared in conjunction with the commissioner of the department of education, to the chairpersons of the house and senate education committees, the house health, human services and elderly affairs committee, and the senate health and human services committee, detailing the state's efforts in fulfilling the policies relating to health education in kindergarten through grade 12 as set forth in subparagraphs (a)-(d).
IX-a. [Repealed.]
IX-b.
Health and Sex Education. Require school districts to adopt a policy allowing an exception to a particular unit of health or sex education instruction based on religious objections. Such policy shall include a provision for alternative learning sufficient to enable the child to meet state requirements for health education.
IX-c.
Require School Districts to Adopt a Policy Allowing an Exception to Specific Course Material Based on a Parent's or Legal Guardian's Determination that the Material is Objectionable. Such policy shall include a provision requiring the parent or legal guardian to notify the school principal or designee in writing of the specific material to which they object and a provision requiring an alternative agreed upon by the school district and the parent, at the parent's expense, sufficient to enable the child to meet state requirements for education in the particular subject area. The policy shall also require the school district or classroom teacher to provide parents and legal guardians not less than 2 weeks advance notice of curriculum course material used for instruction of human sexuality or human sexual education. The policy shall address the method of delivering notification to a parent or legal guardian. To the extent practicable, a school district shall make curriculum course materials available to parents or legal guardians for review upon request. The name of the parent or legal guardian and any specific reasons disclosed to school officials for the objection to the material shall not be public information and shall be excluded from access under RSA 91-A.
IX-d.
Require School Districts to Adopt a Policy Governing the Administration of Non-academic Surveys or Questionnaires to Students. The policy shall require school districts to notify a parent or legal guardian of a non-academic survey or questionnaire and its purpose. The policy shall provide that no student shall be required to volunteer for or submit to a non-academic survey or questionnaire, as defined in this paragraph, without written consent of a parent or legal guardian unless the student is an adult or an emancipated minor. The policy shall include an exception from the consent requirement for the youth risk behavior survey developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The policy shall also allow a parent or legal guardian to opt-out of the youth risk behavior survey developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The school district shall make such surveys or questionnaires available, at the school and on the school or school district's website, for review by a student's parent or legal guardian at least 10 days prior to distribution to students. In this paragraph, "non-academic survey or questionnaire" means surveys, questionnaires, or other documents designed to elicit information about a student's social behavior, family life, religion, politics, sexual orientation, sexual activity, drug use, or any other information not related to a student's academics.