1. The Legislature finds and declares that:
 a. The teenage practice of “sexting,” sending a sexually
explicit text message, is a nationwide 1
[problem that has
perplexed] issue for students,1
parents, school administrators, and
law enforcement officials. 1
[A Study by the National Campaign to
Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy released data which
indicated that 19% of teens aged 13 to 19 had sent a sexually suggestive picture or video of themselves to someone via email, cell
phone, or through another form of online interaction, while 31%
had received a nude or semi-nude picture from someone else.

b. What many teens do not realize is that, by law, a sexual
image of any person under the age of 18 is child pornography.
Prosecutors in several states have charged teenagers who have
engaged in this behavior with criminal offenses, including
distribution of child pornography.
c. Pursuant to a law which became effective in April, 2012, the
New Jersey Legislature provided for a diversionary program for
juveniles who are criminally charged for “sexting” or posting sexual
images and permits them to participate in a remedial education or
counseling program as an alternative to criminal prosecution.
d. Beyond the legal consequences of this behavior, however,
sexting also has significant non-legal consequences including, but
not limited to, the effect on relationships, loss of educational and
employment opportunities, and being barred or removed from
school programs and extracurricular activities.
e. Because of the unique characteristics of cyberspace and the
Internet, a single sext has the potential to cause long-term and
possibly unforeseen consequences, and result in severe
embarrassment, ridicule, cyber-bullying, and lasting mental and
emotional trauma.
f. 1
[Teachers, guidance counselors, and school officials are
having to contend with and care for panic-stricken and depressed
victims of malicious sexts who will not return to class, and may
even resort to self-inflicted injury or suicide.
g.]
1
It is imperative that students understand at a young age the
severity of sending sexually explicit text messages and the impact
that these actions have on the students themselves, their victims, 
and the community and that they receive instruction on how and
 why to refrain from this very dangerous behavior.

 2. A board of education shall include instruction on the social,
emotional, and legal consequences of distributing 1
and soliciting1

 sexually explicit images through electronic means once during
 middle school in an appropriate place in the curriculum as part of
 the school district’s implementation of the New Jersey Student
 Learning Standards in Comprehensive Health and Physical
 Education. The Commissioner of Education shall provide school
districts with age-appropriate sample learning activities and
resources designed to implement this requirement.

3. This act shall take effect in the first full school year
following the date of enactment.