Section 11-105.1. A. All curriculum and materials including
supplementary materials which will be used to teach or will be used
for or in connection with a sex education class or program which is
designed for the exclusive purpose of discussing sexual behavior or
attitudes, or any test, survey or questionnaire whose primary
purpose is to elicit responses on sexual behavior or attitudes shall
be available through the superintendent or a designee of the school
district for inspection by parents and guardians of the student who
will be involved with the class, program or test, survey or
questionnaire. Such curriculum, materials, classes, programs, 
tests, surveys or questionnaires shall have as one of its primary
purposes the teaching of or informing students about the practice of
abstinence. The superintendent or a designee of the school district
shall provide prior written notification to the parents or guardians
of the students involved of their right to inspect the curriculum
and material and of their obligation to notify the school in writing
if they do not want their child to participate in the class,
program, test, survey or questionnaire. Each local board of
education shall determine the means of providing written
notification to the parents and guardian which will ensure effective
notice in an efficient and appropriate manner. No student shall be
required to participate in a sex education class or program which
discusses sexual behavior or attitudes if a parent or guardian of
the student objects in writing to such participation. If the type
of program referred to in this section is a part of or is taught
during a credit course, a student may be required to enroll in the
course but shall not be required to receive instruction in or
participate in the program if a parent or guardian objects in
writing.
B. Curriculum, materials, classes, programs, tests, surveys or
questionnaires provided to students pursuant to this section shall
include information about consent. "Consent" shall have the same
meaning as that provided by Section 113 of Title 21 of the Oklahoma
Statutes.
C. The superintendent or a designee of a school district in
which sex education is taught or a program is offered which is
designed for the exclusive purpose of discussing sexual behavior or
attitudes shall approve all curriculum and materials which will be
used for such education and any test, survey or questionnaire whose
primary purpose is to elicit responses on sexual behavior or
attitudes used in the school prior to their use in the classroom or
school. The teacher involved in the class, program, testing or
survey shall submit the curriculum, materials, tests or surveys to
the superintendent or a designee for approval prior to their use in
the classroom or school. This section shall not apply to those
students enrolled in classes, programs, testings or surveys offered
through an alternative education program.
SECTION 2. This act shall become effective July 1, 2019.
SECTION 3. It being immediately necessary for the preservation
of the public peace, health or safety, an emergency is hereby
declared to exist, by reason whereof this act shall take effect and
be in full force from and after its passage and approval.