Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Dating” or “dating relationship” means an ongoing social relationship of a romantic
or intimate nature between two persons. “Dating” or “dating relationship” does not include
a casual relationship or ordinary fraternization between two persons in a business or social
context.
(b) “Teen dating violence” means:
(A) A pattern of behavior in which a person uses or threatens to use physical, mental
or emotional abuse to control another person who is in a dating relationship with the person,
where one or both persons are 13 to 19 years of age; or
(B) Behavior by which a person uses or threatens to use sexual violence against another
person who is in a dating relationship with the person, where one or both persons are 13 to
19 years of age.
(2) Each school district board shall adopt a policy that:
(a) States that teen dating violence is unacceptable and is prohibited and that each student has the right to a safe learning environment;
(b) Incorporates age-appropriate education about teen dating violence into new or existing training programs for students in grades 7 through 12 and school employees as recommended by the school officials identified under paragraph (d) of this subsection;
(c) Establishes procedures for the manner in which employees of a school are to respond
to incidents of teen dating violence that take place at the school, on school grounds, at
school-sponsored activities or in vehicles used for school-provided transportation;
(d) Identifies by job title the school officials who are responsible for receiving reports
related to teen dating violence, which shall be the same school officials identified in the
policy adopted by a school district under ORS 339.356; and
(e) Notifies students and parents of the teen dating violence policy adopted by the board.
(3) The policy adopted under subsection (2) of this section must be included in and consistent with the policy adopted by a school district under ORS 339.356.
Enrolled House Bill 4077 (HB 4077-B) Page 1
SECTION 2. ORS 147.450 is amended to read:
147.450. As used in ORS 147.450 to 147.471:
(1) “Domestic violence” has the meaning given that term in ORS 135.230 and includes teen
dating violence.[; and]
(2) “Sexual assault” means any unwanted sexual contact as defined in ORS 163.305.
(3) “Teen dating violence” means:
(a) A pattern of behavior in which a person uses or threatens to use physical, mental or
emotional abuse to control another person who is in a dating relationship with the person,
where one or both persons are 13 to 19 years of age; or
(b) Behavior by which a person uses or threatens to use sexual violence against another
person who is in a dating relationship with the person, where one or both persons are 13 to
19 years of age.
SECTION 3. ORS 147.453 is amended to read:
147.453. There is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund,
the Oregon Domestic and Sexual Violence Services Fund. All moneys in the fund are continuously
appropriated to the Department of Justice and shall be used by the department to carry out a program of domestic and sexual violence services that:
(1) Provides safety for and assists victims of domestic violence and sexual assault, promotes effective intervention and reduces the incidence of domestic violence and sexual assault;
(2) Advocates for victims and for domestic violence and sexual assault services; [and]
(3) Promotes and facilitates interagency and interdepartmental cooperation among state agencies, including the Department of Human Services, and among different levels of government in this
state in the delivery and funding of services[.]; and
(4) Encourages and supports services, programs and curricula to educate and inform
students in grades 7 through 12 about teen dating violence, to provide assistance to victims
of teen dating violence and to prevent and reduce the incidence of teen dating violence.
SECTION 4. ORS 409.290 is amended to read:
409.290. As used in ORS 409.290 to 409.300 unless the context requires otherwise:
(1) “Crisis line” means an emergency telephone service staffed by persons who are trained to
provide emergency peer counseling, information, referral and advocacy to victims of [domestic]
family or teen dating violence and their families.
(2) “Director” means the Director of Human Services.
(3) “Family violence” means the physical injury, sexual abuse or forced imprisonment, or threat
thereof, of a person by another who is related by blood, marriage or intimate cohabitation at the
present or has been related at some time in the past, to the extent that the person’s health or welfare is harmed or threatened thereby, as determined in accordance with rules prescribed by the director.
(4) “Safe house” means a place of temporary refuge, offered on an “as needed” basis to victims
of [domestic] family violence and their families.
(5) “Shelter home” means a place of temporary refuge, offered on a 24-hour, seven-day per week
basis to victims of [domestic] family violence and their children.
(6) “Teen dating violence” means:
(a) A pattern of behavior in which a person uses or threatens to use physical, mental or
emotional abuse to control another person who is in a dating relationship with the person,
where one or both persons are 13 to 19 years of age; or
(b) Behavior by which a person uses or threatens to use sexual violence against another
person who is in a dating relationship with the person, where one or both persons are 13 to
19 years of age.
SECTION 5. ORS 409.292 is amended to read:
409.292. (1) The Director of Human Services may make grants to and enter into contracts with
nonprofit private organizations or public agencies for programs and projects designed to prevent,
Enrolled House Bill 4077 (HB 4077-B) Page 2
identify and treat family and teen dating violence. Grants or contracts under this subsection may
be:
(a) For the funding of shelter homes for spouses and children who are or have experienced
family violence including acquisition and maintenance of shelter homes;
(b) For the funding of crisis lines providing services to victims of [domestic] family or teen
dating violence and their families;
(c) For the funding of safe houses for victims of [domestic] family violence and their families;
[and]
(d) For the funding of services, programs and curricula to educate and inform students
in grades 7 through 12 about teen dating violence, to provide assistance to victims of teen
dating violence and to prevent and reduce the incidence of teen dating violence; and
[(d)] (e) For the development and establishment of programs for professional and
paraprofessional personnel in the fields of social work, law enforcement, education, law, medicine
and other relevant fields who are engaged in the field of the prevention, identification and treatment
of family and teen dating violence and training programs in methods of preventing family and teen
dating violence.